artifact_evaluation/README.md, before:

# Artifact evaluation

*Note:* All the timings listed below refer to our testbed. They may vary depending on the computing power of the used machine.

## System Set-up
To reproduce the results of SPP, a machine equipped with a physical persistent memory module is required. SPP requires a DAX-enabled file system, such as EXT4-DAX. To format and mount the drive (assuming the device name is `/dev/pmem0`), follow the instructions below:
```
$ sudo mkdir /mnt/pmem0
$ sudo mkfs.ext4 /dev/pmem0
$ sudo mount -t ext4 -o dax /dev/pmem0 /mnt/pmem0
$ sudo chmod -R 777 /mnt/pmem0
 ```
In case you do not have a machine with persistent memory, you can execute the experiments by [emulating](https://pmem.io/blog/2016/02/how-to-emulate-persistent-memory/) it with DRAM, e.g., with the `/dev/shm/` directory. Note that, this results in considerable differences in the final performance measurements.

Further, you need to get the source code of SPP and set up the [native environment](../README.md#automated-project-build).
It takes some minutes depending on the computing power of your machine because it builds LLVM. In our case, it lasted ~20mins. 
To do so, run the following:
```
$ git clone git@github.com:dimstav23/SPP.git
$ git checkout spp_lto-pm_ptr_bit
$ git submodule --update init
$ ./install_dependencies.sh
$ nix-shell
```

---

## Simple minimal examples & functionality tests
After you have successfully [set up the environment](../README.md#automated-project-build), you can easily run the provided [minimal examples](../README.md#minimal-examples-execution) and [functionality tests](../README.md#functionality-tests) as explained in the [README](../README.md) of the root folder.

---

## Automated Artifact Evaluation (approx. 8-10hrs)

Our automated scripts create the appropriate docker images and carry out each experiment with the appropriate configuration inside a dedicated docker container.

**IMPORTANT**: In the following sections, we assume that you are inside the [nix-shell](../README.md#automated-project-build) and have `/mnt/pmem0/` as the directory where PM is mounted. We also assume that the mounted PM device is attached in NUMA node with `id=0`.
If the machine you are using has multiple *NUMA nodes*, it is **mandatory** that you specify the node that the mounted PM is attached. This can be done via the `NUMA_NODE` environment variable. Otherwise, you can ignore this variable. Additionally, if you have PM mounted elsewhere, simply replace the path in the following commands.

To execute **all** the Artifact Evaluation steps, simply run:
```
$ cd SPP/artifact_evaluation
$ NUMA_NODE=0 BENCHMARK_PM_PATH=/mnt/pmem0/ ./artifact_evaluation.sh
```

The above script will do the following:
1. Create the appropriate docker images
2. Execute all the experiments under all the configurations
3. Gather their results and place them in this directory, as follows:
  - `figure_4-pmembench_indices.png` and `figure_4-pmembench_indices.pdf`
  - `figure_5-pmemkv.png` and `figure_5-pmemkv.pdf`
  - `figure_6-phoenix.png` and `figure_6-phoenix.pdf`
  - `figure_7-pmembench_PM_ops.png` and `figure_7-pmembench_PM_ops.pdf`
  - `table_2-recovery_time.txt`
  - `table_3-space_overhead.txt`
  - `table_4-ripe.txt`
  - `crash_consistency_results.txt`
4. The reproduction of the `btree` bug is left last, so that its output will be presented last in the `stdout` of the `artifact_evaluation.sh` script. For more information about this benchmark, please see [here](../benchmarks/bugs/README.md).

---

## Manual Artifact Evaluation

### 1. Image creation (approx. 30 mins)

1. Create the docker images that contain the default `clang-12` compiler and the SPP `clang-12` version.

```
$ cd SPP/utils/docker/compiler_images
$ ./create_clang_12_image.sh
$ ./create_spp_image.sh
```

2. Build the base images for the vanilla PMDK, SPP and SafePM experiments.

```
$ cd SPP/utils/docker/packaged_environments
$ ./create_env_pmdk.sh
$ ./create_env_safepm.sh
$ ./create_env_spp.sh
```

### 2. Experiments execution

**IMPORTANT**: In the following sections, we assume that you are inside the [nix-shell](../README.md#automated-project-build) and have `/mnt/pmem0/` as the directory where PM is mounted. If you have PM mounted elsewhere, simply replace the path in the following commands.
Additionally, all the timings listed below refer to our testbed. They may vary depending on the computing power of the used machine.

#### pmembench (approx. 45-60 mins)
To run the `pmembench` experiments for all the variants:
```
$ cd SPP/benchmarks/pmembench
$ NUMA_NODE=0 BENCHMARK_PM_PATH=/mnt/pmem0/ ./run_variants.sh
```
For more information about `pmembench`, please see [here](../benchmarks/pmembench/README.md).

#### pmemkv (approx. 240 mins)
To run the `pmemkv` experiments for all the variants:
```
$ cd SPP/benchmarks/pmemkv
$ NUMA_NODE=0 BENCHMARK_PM_PATH=/mnt/pmem0 ./run-variants.sh
```
For more information about `pmemkv`, please see [here](../benchmarks/pmemkv/README.md).

#### Phoenix (approx. 90 mins)
To run the `phoenix` experiments for all the variants:
```
$ cd SPP/benchmarks/phoenix
$ NUMA_NODE=0 BENCHMARK_PM_PATH=/mnt/pmem0 ./run_variants.sh
```
For more information about `phoenix`, please see [here](../benchmarks/phoenix/README.md).

#### Recovery time (approx. 10 mins)
To run the `recovery time` experiments for all the variants:
```
$ cd SPP/benchmarks/recovery_time
$ BENCHMARK_PM_PATH=/mnt/pmem0 ./run-variants.sh
```
For more information about the `recovery time` microbenchmark, please see [here](../benchmarks/recovery_time/README.md).

#### RIPE (approx. 30-40 mins)
To run the `ripe` experiments for all the variants:
```
$ cd SPP/benchmarks/ripe
$ BENCHMARK_PM_PATH=/mnt/pmem0 ./run-variants.sh
```
For more information about `ripe`, please see [here](../benchmarks/ripe/README.md).

#### Bug reproduction (approx. 1-2 mins)
To reproduce the `btree bug` of `PMDK`:
```
$ cd SPP/benchmarks/bugs
$ BENCHMARK_PM_PATH=/mnt/pmem0 ./spp_bugs.sh
```
The caught PM buffer overflow bugs will be presented in the `stdout` as faults.
For more information about the `bug reproduction`, please see [here](../benchmarks/bugs/README.md).

#### Space overhead (approx. 10 mins)
To run the `space overhead` experiments:
```
$ cd SPP/benchmarks/space_overhead
$ BENCHMARK_PM_PATH=/mnt/pmem0 ./run-variants.sh
```
For more information about the `space overhead` microbenchmark, please see [here](../benchmarks/space_overhead/README.md).

#### Crash consistency (approx. 20-30 mins)
To run the `crash consistency` validation experiments:
```
$ cd SPP/benchmarks/crash_consistency
$ BENCHMARK_PM_PATH=/mnt/pmem0 ./run-variants.sh
```
For more information about the `crash consistency` benchmark, please see [here](../benchmarks/crash_consistency/README.md).

### Results visualization
After the execution of the above benchmarks, and assuming that the results are placed in their default locations,
you can use the following commands to reproduce the figures and the tables of the SPP paper:

#### Figures 4 & 7
To produce the figures 4 and 7 of the paper:
```
$ cd SPP/plot_utils
$ ./import_pmembench.sh SPP/benchmarks/pmembench/results
$ python3 generate_plots.py plot_config_pmembench_tx.yml
$ python3 generate_plots.py plot_config_maps.yml
```

To copy the figures 4 and 7 in the `artifact_evaluation` directory:
```
$ cp SPP/plot_utils/plots/pmembench_map/pmembench_map_plot.png SPP/artifact_evaluation/figure_4-pmembench_indices.png
$ cp SPP/plot_utils/plots/pmembench_map/pmembench_map_plot.pdf SPP/artifact_evaluation/figure_4-pmembench_indices.pdf
$ cp SPP/plot_utils/plots/pmembench_tx/pmembench_tx_plot_single_vertical.png SPP/artifact_evaluation/figure_7-pmembench_PM_ops.png
$ cp SPP/plot_utils/plots/pmembench_tx/pmembench_tx_plot_single_vertical.pdf SPP/artifact_evaluation/figure_7-pmembench_PM_ops.pdf
```

#### Figure 5
To produce the figure 5 of the paper:
```
$ cd SPP/plot_utils
$ ./import_pmemkv.sh SPP/benchmarks/pmemkv/results
$ python3 generate_plots.py plot_config_pmemkv.yml
```

To copy the figure 5 in the `artifact_evaluation` directory:
```
$ cp SPP/plot_utils/plots/pmemkv/pmemkv_plot_overhead.png SPP/artifact_evaluation/figure_5-pmemkv.png
$ cp SPP/plot_utils/plots/pmemkv/pmemkv_plot_overhead.pdf SPP/artifact_evaluation/figure_5-pmemkv.pdf
```

#### Figure 6
To produce the figure 6 of the paper:
```
$ cd SPP/benchmarks/phoenix
$ python3 plot.py SPP/benchmarks/phoenix/results/phoenix_8_threads
```

To copy the figure 6 in the `artifact_evaluation` directory:
```
$ cp SPP/benchmarks/phoenix/results/phoenix_8_threads/phoenix_bar_plot_overhead.png SPP/artifact_evaluation/figure_6-phoenix.png
$ cp SPP/benchmarks/phoenix/results/phoenix_8_threads/phoenix_bar_plot_overhead.pdf SPP/artifact_evaluation/figure_6-phoenix.pdf
```

#### Table 2
To produce the table 2 of the paper in the `stdout` and copy it in the `artifact_evaluation` directory:
```
$ cd SPP/benchmarks/recovery_time
$ ./recovery_table.sh | tee SPP/artifact_evaluation/table_2-recovery_time.txt
```

#### Table 3
To produce the table 3 of the paper in the `stdout` and copy it in the `artifact_evaluation` directory:
```
$ cd SPP/benchmarks/space_overhead
$ ./space_overhead_results.sh | tee SPP/artifact_evaluation/table_3-space_overhead.txt
```

#### Table 4
To produce the table 4 of the paper in the `stdout` and copy it in the `artifact_evaluation` directory:
```
$ cd SPP/benchmarks/ripe
$ ./ripe_table.sh | tee SPP/artifact_evaluation/table_4-ripe.txt
```

#### Crash consistency
To output the results of the crash consistency checking tools in the `stdout` and copy it in the `artifact_evaluation` directory:
```
$ cd SPP/benchmarks/crash_consistency
$ ./crash-consistency-res.sh | tee SPP/artifact_evaluation/crash_consistency_results.txt
```

---

## Hardware configuration
To reproduce the results from the paper, the machine should preferably be equipped with a physical persistent memory module (e.g., Intel Optane DC) with at least 128 GB available space. 
The persistent memory module should be mounted using a DAX-enabled file system (e.g. EXT4-DAX).
Additionally, we recommend running the [pmemkv](https://github.com/pmem/pmemkv) experiments on a machine with at least 24 cores, as they are configured to run with up to 24 threads. 
Our testbed, used to conduct our experiments, is a dual socket machine with the following CPU architecture obtained through `lscpu` command (flags removed for simplicity):
```
Architecture:            x86_64
  CPU op-mode(s):        32-bit, 64-bit
  Address sizes:         46 bits physical, 57 bits virtual
  Byte Order:            Little Endian
CPU(s):                  64
  On-line CPU(s) list:   0-63
Vendor ID:               GenuineIntel
  Model name:            Intel(R) Xeon(R) Gold 6326 CPU @ 2.90GHz
    CPU family:          6
    Model:               106
    Thread(s) per core:  2
    Core(s) per socket:  16
    Socket(s):           2
    Stepping:            6
    CPU(s) scaling MHz:  92%
    CPU max MHz:         3500.0000
    CPU min MHz:         800.0000
    BogoMIPS:            5800.00
Virtualization features: 
  Virtualization:        VT-x
Caches (sum of all):     
  L1d:                   1.5 MiB (32 instances)
  L1i:                   1 MiB (32 instances)
  L2:                    40 MiB (32 instances)
  L3:                    48 MiB (2 instances)
NUMA:                    
  NUMA node(s):          2
  NUMA node0 CPU(s):     0-15,32-47
  NUMA node1 CPU(s):     16-31,48-63
```

Our system is equipped with 128GB of DRAM and 2TB of Persistent Memory distributed in its 2 nodes.

The DRAM & PM topology, obtained through the `sudo ipmctl show -topology` command, is as follows:
```
 DimmID | MemoryType                  | Capacity    | PhysicalID| DeviceLocator 
================================================================================
 0x0000 | Logical Non-Volatile Device | 256.000 GiB | 0x0029    | P1-DIMMA1
 0x0100 | Logical Non-Volatile Device | 256.000 GiB | 0x002d    | P1-DIMMC1
 0x0200 | Logical Non-Volatile Device | 256.000 GiB | 0x0031    | P1-DIMME1
 0x0300 | Logical Non-Volatile Device | 256.000 GiB | 0x0035    | P1-DIMMG1
 0x1000 | Logical Non-Volatile Device | 256.000 GiB | 0x0039    | P2-DIMMA1
 0x1100 | Logical Non-Volatile Device | 256.000 GiB | 0x003d    | P2-DIMMC1
 0x1200 | Logical Non-Volatile Device | 256.000 GiB | 0x0041    | P2-DIMME1
 0x1300 | Logical Non-Volatile Device | 256.000 GiB | 0x0045    | P2-DIMMG1
 N/A    | DDR4                        | 16.000 GiB  | 0x002b    | P1-DIMMB1
 N/A    | DDR4                        | 16.000 GiB  | 0x002f    | P1-DIMMD1
 N/A    | DDR4                        | 16.000 GiB  | 0x0033    | P1-DIMMF1
 N/A    | DDR4                        | 16.000 GiB  | 0x0037    | P1-DIMMH1
 N/A    | DDR4                        | 16.000 GiB  | 0x003b    | P2-DIMMB1
 N/A    | DDR4                        | 16.000 GiB  | 0x003f    | P2-DIMMD1
 N/A    | DDR4                        | 16.000 GiB  | 0x0043    | P2-DIMMF1
 N/A    | DDR4                        | 16.000 GiB  | 0x0047    | P2-DIMMH1
```

---

## Software dependencies
To make reproducibility easier, we use the `nix` package manager. Using our [`install_dependencies.sh`](../install_dependencies.sh) and[`default.nix`](../default.nix) files and following [this](../README.md#automated-project-build) process, you can get the exact environment (with the `nix-shell`) we used which contains all the required depencencies through the `nix` package manager. 

Our benchmark execution orchestration is based entirely on Docker containers.

For Native environments without the `nix` package manager, 
we require the following software configuration to reproduce our experimental results:
1. Linux (tested in Ubuntu 20.04.3 LTS with kernel version 5.4.0)
2. Docker (tested with Docker version 20.10.7): Each experiment comes with its pre-configured Dockerfile. We provide scripts that automatically build the images containing the required software dependencies.
3. gcc and cmake (tested with gcc 9.3.0 and cmake 3.16.3)
4. Python 3.7 or newer (tested with Python 3.8.10). The packages `matplotlib` and `pyyml` are required.
5. The [`bc`](https://www.gnu.org/software/bc/) package for our analysis scripts.
6. The versions of `libpmemobj-cpp` (version stable-1.13), `pmemkv` (version 1.4) and `pmemkv-bench` (commit `32d94c0`) that are used, are specified in the respective Dockerfiles in [this directory](../utils/docker/compiler_images/).

---

## SPP code structure
For more information about the source code structure please see [here](../README.md#code-structure).

Commit message:

[benchmarks/bugs] add phoenix and PMDK array bugs reproduction
Signed-off-by: dimstav23 <dimstav23@gmail.com>

artifact_evaluation/README.md, after:

# Artifact evaluation

*Note:* All the timings listed below refer to our testbed. They may vary depending on the computing power of the used machine.

## System Set-up
To reproduce the results of SPP, a machine equipped with a physical persistent memory module is required. SPP requires a DAX-enabled file system, such as EXT4-DAX. To format and mount the drive (assuming the device name is `/dev/pmem0`), follow the instructions below:
```
$ sudo mkdir /mnt/pmem0
$ sudo mkfs.ext4 /dev/pmem0
$ sudo mount -t ext4 -o dax /dev/pmem0 /mnt/pmem0
$ sudo chmod -R 777 /mnt/pmem0
 ```
In case you do not have a machine with persistent memory, you can execute the experiments by [emulating](https://pmem.io/blog/2016/02/how-to-emulate-persistent-memory/) it with DRAM, e.g., with the `/dev/shm/` directory. Note that, this results in considerable differences in the final performance measurements.

Further, you need to get the source code of SPP and set up the [native environment](../README.md#automated-project-build).
It takes some minutes depending on the computing power of your machine because it builds LLVM. In our case, it lasted ~20mins. 
To do so, run the following:
```
$ git clone git@github.com:dimstav23/SPP.git
$ git checkout spp_lto-pm_ptr_bit
$ git submodule --update init
$ ./install_dependencies.sh
$ nix-shell
```

---

## Simple minimal examples & functionality tests
After you have successfully [set up the environment](../README.md#automated-project-build), you can easily run the provided [minimal examples](../README.md#minimal-examples-execution) and [functionality tests](../README.md#functionality-tests) as explained in the [README](../README.md) of the root folder.

---

## Automated Artifact Evaluation (approx. 8-10hrs)

Our automated scripts create the appropriate docker images and carry out each experiment with the appropriate configuration inside a dedicated docker container.

**IMPORTANT**: In the following sections, we assume that you are inside the [nix-shell](../README.md#automated-project-build) and have `/mnt/pmem0/` as the directory where PM is mounted. We also assume that the mounted PM device is attached in NUMA node with `id=0`.
If the machine you are using has multiple *NUMA nodes*, it is **mandatory** that you specify the node that the mounted PM is attached. This can be done via the `NUMA_NODE` environment variable. Otherwise, you can ignore this variable. Additionally, if you have PM mounted elsewhere, simply replace the path in the following commands.

To execute **all** the Artifact Evaluation steps, simply run:
```
$ cd SPP/artifact_evaluation
$ NUMA_NODE=0 BENCHMARK_PM_PATH=/mnt/pmem0/ ./artifact_evaluation.sh
```

The above script will do the following:
1. Create the appropriate docker images
2. Execute all the experiments under all the configurations
3. Gather their results and place them in this directory, as follows:
  - `figure_4-pmembench_indices.png` and `figure_4-pmembench_indices.pdf`
  - `figure_5-pmemkv.png` and `figure_5-pmemkv.pdf`
  - `figure_6-phoenix.png` and `figure_6-phoenix.pdf`
  - `figure_7-pmembench_PM_ops.png` and `figure_7-pmembench_PM_ops.pdf`
  - `table_2-recovery_time.txt`
  - `table_3-space_overhead.txt`
  - `table_4-ripe.txt`
  - `crash_consistency_results.txt`
4. The reproduction of the PMDK `btree`, phoenix `string_match` and PMDK `array` bugs are left last, so that its output will be presented last in the `stdout` of the `artifact_evaluation.sh` script. For more information about this benchmark, please see [here](../benchmarks/bugs/README.md).

---

## Manual Artifact Evaluation

### 1. Image creation (approx. 30 mins)

1. Create the docker images that contain the default `clang-12` compiler and the SPP `clang-12` version.

```
$ cd SPP/utils/docker/compiler_images
$ ./create_clang_12_image.sh
$ ./create_spp_image.sh
```

2. Build the base images for the vanilla PMDK, SPP and SafePM experiments.

```
$ cd SPP/utils/docker/packaged_environments
$ ./create_env_pmdk.sh
$ ./create_env_safepm.sh
$ ./create_env_spp.sh
```

### 2. Experiments execution

**IMPORTANT**: In the following sections, we assume that you are inside the [nix-shell](../README.md#automated-project-build) and have `/mnt/pmem0/` as the directory where PM is mounted. If you have PM mounted elsewhere, simply replace the path in the following commands.
Additionally, all the timings listed below refer to our testbed. They may vary depending on the computing power of the used machine.

#### pmembench (approx. 45-60 mins)
To run the `pmembench` experiments for all the variants:
```
$ cd SPP/benchmarks/pmembench
$ NUMA_NODE=0 BENCHMARK_PM_PATH=/mnt/pmem0/ ./run_variants.sh
```
For more information about `pmembench`, please see [here](../benchmarks/pmembench/README.md).

#### pmemkv (approx. 240 mins)
To run the `pmemkv` experiments for all the variants:
```
$ cd SPP/benchmarks/pmemkv
$ NUMA_NODE=0 BENCHMARK_PM_PATH=/mnt/pmem0 ./run-variants.sh
```
For more information about `pmemkv`, please see [here](../benchmarks/pmemkv/README.md).

#### Phoenix (approx. 90 mins)
To run the `phoenix` experiments for all the variants:
```
$ cd SPP/benchmarks/phoenix
$ NUMA_NODE=0 BENCHMARK_PM_PATH=/mnt/pmem0 ./run_variants.sh
```
For more information about `phoenix`, please see [here](../benchmarks/phoenix/README.md).

#### Recovery time (approx. 10 mins)
To run the `recovery time` experiments for all the variants:
```
$ cd SPP/benchmarks/recovery_time
$ BENCHMARK_PM_PATH=/mnt/pmem0 ./run-variants.sh
```
For more information about the `recovery time` microbenchmark, please see [here](../benchmarks/recovery_time/README.md).

#### RIPE (approx. 30-40 mins)
To run the `ripe` experiments for all the variants:
```
$ cd SPP/benchmarks/ripe
$ BENCHMARK_PM_PATH=/mnt/pmem0 ./run-variants.sh
```
For more information about `ripe`, please see [here](../benchmarks/ripe/README.md).

#### Bugs reproduction (approx. 5 mins)
To reproduce the PMDK `btree`, phoenix `string_match` and PMDK `array` bugs:
```
$ cd SPP/benchmarks/bugs
$ BENCHMARK_PM_PATH=/mnt/pmem0 ./spp_bugs.sh
```
The caught PM buffer overflow bugs will be presented in the `stdout` as faults.
For more information about the `bugs reproduction`, please see [here](../benchmarks/bugs/README.md).

#### Space overhead (approx. 10 mins)
To run the `space overhead` experiments:
```
$ cd SPP/benchmarks/space_overhead
$ BENCHMARK_PM_PATH=/mnt/pmem0 ./run-variants.sh
```
For more information about the `space overhead` microbenchmark, please see [here](../benchmarks/space_overhead/README.md).

#### Crash consistency (approx. 20-30 mins)
To run the `crash consistency` validation experiments:
```
$ cd SPP/benchmarks/crash_consistency
$ BENCHMARK_PM_PATH=/mnt/pmem0 ./run-variants.sh
```
For more information about the `crash consistency` benchmark, please see [here](../benchmarks/crash_consistency/README.md).

### Results visualization
After the execution of the above benchmarks, and assuming that the results are placed in their default locations,
you can use the following commands to reproduce the figures and the tables of the SPP paper:

#### Figures 4 & 7
To produce the figures 4 and 7 of the paper:
```
$ cd SPP/plot_utils
$ ./import_pmembench.sh SPP/benchmarks/pmembench/results
$ python3 generate_plots.py plot_config_pmembench_tx.yml
$ python3 generate_plots.py plot_config_maps.yml
```

To copy the figures 4 and 7 in the `artifact_evaluation` directory:
```
$ cp SPP/plot_utils/plots/pmembench_map/pmembench_map_plot.png SPP/artifact_evaluation/figure_4-pmembench_indices.png
$ cp SPP/plot_utils/plots/pmembench_map/pmembench_map_plot.pdf SPP/artifact_evaluation/figure_4-pmembench_indices.pdf
$ cp SPP/plot_utils/plots/pmembench_tx/pmembench_tx_plot_single_vertical.png SPP/artifact_evaluation/figure_7-pmembench_PM_ops.png
$ cp SPP/plot_utils/plots/pmembench_tx/pmembench_tx_plot_single_vertical.pdf SPP/artifact_evaluation/figure_7-pmembench_PM_ops.pdf
```

#### Figure 5
To produce the figure 5 of the paper:
```
$ cd SPP/plot_utils
$ ./import_pmemkv.sh SPP/benchmarks/pmemkv/results
$ python3 generate_plots.py plot_config_pmemkv.yml
```

To copy the figure 5 in the `artifact_evaluation` directory:
```
$ cp SPP/plot_utils/plots/pmemkv/pmemkv_plot_overhead.png SPP/artifact_evaluation/figure_5-pmemkv.png
$ cp SPP/plot_utils/plots/pmemkv/pmemkv_plot_overhead.pdf SPP/artifact_evaluation/figure_5-pmemkv.pdf
```

#### Figure 6
To produce the figure 6 of the paper:
```
$ cd SPP/benchmarks/phoenix
$ python3 plot.py SPP/benchmarks/phoenix/results/phoenix_8_threads
```

To copy the figure 6 in the `artifact_evaluation` directory:
```
$ cp SPP/benchmarks/phoenix/results/phoenix_8_threads/phoenix_bar_plot_overhead.png SPP/artifact_evaluation/figure_6-phoenix.png
$ cp SPP/benchmarks/phoenix/results/phoenix_8_threads/phoenix_bar_plot_overhead.pdf SPP/artifact_evaluation/figure_6-phoenix.pdf
```

#### Table 2
To produce the table 2 of the paper in the `stdout` and copy it in the `artifact_evaluation` directory:
```
$ cd SPP/benchmarks/recovery_time
$ ./recovery_table.sh | tee SPP/artifact_evaluation/table_2-recovery_time.txt
```

#### Table 3
To produce the table 3 of the paper in the `stdout` and copy it in the `artifact_evaluation` directory:
```
$ cd SPP/benchmarks/space_overhead
$ ./space_overhead_results.sh | tee SPP/artifact_evaluation/table_3-space_overhead.txt
```

#### Table 4
To produce the table 4 of the paper in the `stdout` and copy it in the `artifact_evaluation` directory:
```
$ cd SPP/benchmarks/ripe
$ ./ripe_table.sh | tee SPP/artifact_evaluation/table_4-ripe.txt
```

#### Crash consistency
To output the results of the crash consistency checking tools in the `stdout` and copy it in the `artifact_evaluation` directory:
```
$ cd SPP/benchmarks/crash_consistency
$ ./crash-consistency-res.sh | tee SPP/artifact_evaluation/crash_consistency_results.txt
```

---

## Hardware configuration
To reproduce the results from the paper, the machine should preferably be equipped with a physical persistent memory module (e.g., Intel Optane DC) with at least 128 GB available space. 
The persistent memory module should be mounted using a DAX-enabled file system (e.g. EXT4-DAX).
Additionally, we recommend running the [pmemkv](https://github.com/pmem/pmemkv) experiments on a machine with at least 24 cores, as they are configured to run with up to 24 threads. 
Our testbed, used to conduct our experiments, is a dual socket machine with the following CPU architecture obtained through `lscpu` command (flags removed for simplicity):
```
Architecture:            x86_64
  CPU op-mode(s):        32-bit, 64-bit
  Address sizes:         46 bits physical, 57 bits virtual
  Byte Order:            Little Endian
CPU(s):                  64
  On-line CPU(s) list:   0-63
Vendor ID:               GenuineIntel
  Model name:            Intel(R) Xeon(R) Gold 6326 CPU @ 2.90GHz
    CPU family:          6
    Model:               106
    Thread(s) per core:  2
    Core(s) per socket:  16
    Socket(s):           2
    Stepping:            6
    CPU(s) scaling MHz:  92%
    CPU max MHz:         3500.0000
    CPU min MHz:         800.0000
    BogoMIPS:            5800.00
Virtualization features: 
  Virtualization:        VT-x
Caches (sum of all):     
  L1d:                   1.5 MiB (32 instances)
  L1i:                   1 MiB (32 instances)
  L2:                    40 MiB (32 instances)
  L3:                    48 MiB (2 instances)
NUMA:                    
  NUMA node(s):          2
  NUMA node0 CPU(s):     0-15,32-47
  NUMA node1 CPU(s):     16-31,48-63
```

Our system is equipped with 128GB of DRAM and 2TB of Persistent Memory distributed in its 2 nodes.

The DRAM & PM topology, obtained through the `sudo ipmctl show -topology` command, is as follows:
```
 DimmID | MemoryType                  | Capacity    | PhysicalID| DeviceLocator 
================================================================================
 0x0000 | Logical Non-Volatile Device | 256.000 GiB | 0x0029    | P1-DIMMA1
 0x0100 | Logical Non-Volatile Device | 256.000 GiB | 0x002d    | P1-DIMMC1
 0x0200 | Logical Non-Volatile Device | 256.000 GiB | 0x0031    | P1-DIMME1
 0x0300 | Logical Non-Volatile Device | 256.000 GiB | 0x0035    | P1-DIMMG1
 0x1000 | Logical Non-Volatile Device | 256.000 GiB | 0x0039    | P2-DIMMA1
 0x1100 | Logical Non-Volatile Device | 256.000 GiB | 0x003d    | P2-DIMMC1
 0x1200 | Logical Non-Volatile Device | 256.000 GiB | 0x0041    | P2-DIMME1
 0x1300 | Logical Non-Volatile Device | 256.000 GiB | 0x0045    | P2-DIMMG1
 N/A    | DDR4                        | 16.000 GiB  | 0x002b    | P1-DIMMB1
 N/A    | DDR4                        | 16.000 GiB  | 0x002f    | P1-DIMMD1
 N/A    | DDR4                        | 16.000 GiB  | 0x0033    | P1-DIMMF1
 N/A    | DDR4                        | 16.000 GiB  | 0x0037    | P1-DIMMH1
 N/A    | DDR4                        | 16.000 GiB  | 0x003b    | P2-DIMMB1
 N/A    | DDR4                        | 16.000 GiB  | 0x003f    | P2-DIMMD1
 N/A    | DDR4                        | 16.000 GiB  | 0x0043    | P2-DIMMF1
 N/A    | DDR4                        | 16.000 GiB  | 0x0047    | P2-DIMMH1
```

---

## Software dependencies
To make reproducibility easier, we use the `nix` package manager. Using our [`install_dependencies.sh`](../install_dependencies.sh) and[`default.nix`](../default.nix) files and following [this](../README.md#automated-project-build) process, you can get the exact environment (with the `nix-shell`) we used which contains all the required depencencies through the `nix` package manager. 

Our benchmark execution orchestration is based entirely on Docker containers.

For Native environments without the `nix` package manager, 
we require the following software configuration to reproduce our experimental results:
1. Linux (tested in Ubuntu 20.04.3 LTS with kernel version 5.4.0)
2. Docker (tested with Docker version 20.10.7): Each experiment comes with its pre-configured Dockerfile. We provide scripts that automatically build the images containing the required software dependencies.
3. gcc and cmake (tested with gcc 9.3.0 and cmake 3.16.3)
4. Python 3.7 or newer (tested with Python 3.8.10). The packages `matplotlib` and `pyyml` are required.
5. The [`bc`](https://www.gnu.org/software/bc/) package for our analysis scripts.
6. The versions of `libpmemobj-cpp` (version stable-1.13), `pmemkv` (version 1.4) and `pmemkv-bench` (commit `32d94c0`) that are used, are specified in the respective Dockerfiles in [this directory](../utils/docker/compiler_images/).

---

## SPP code structure
For more information about the source code structure please see [here](../README.md#code-structure).
